# AVARICE THE SMITH

So one day I was getting drinks with my cousin and he, apropos of nothing, said "I think I'm gonna start making swords". My first thought was not "how will you source materials of high enough quality?", "how do you plan on acquiring the necessary equipment for a proper smithy?", or "where exactly do you plan to put said materials?". No, my first thought was "you're gonna need a kickass website to sell those bad boys."

And out of the flames of inebriation arose the boozy phoenix known as AVARICE THE SMITH--a demonstrational eCommerce site to showcase and sell the merchandise of he who would someday proudly don the title of "amateur swordsmith".

Live Frontend: https://boring-wing-14ab79.netlify.app/

Live Backend: https://avaricebackend.herokuapp.com/

NOTE: For this demo, I have only completed the Admin Portal. The client-facing side will be a separate app pinging the same API, but with different functionality (see below for elaboration)

## PROJECT DETAILS

### Backend

Language/Technologies:

* Go
* gin
* GORM
* sqlite
* JWT
* Various plugins from the cool babies in the Golang community (Discord Gophers wya)

### Frontend

Language/Technologies:

* HTML/CSS/JS
* React
* Bootstrap

### Misc

* Heroku (hosted backend)
* Netlify (hosted frontend)
* Github

## PROJECT PLANNING

### Backend

#### Routing Schema

* Admin Login - POST "/login"
    * NOTE: static login, no option to create new admin
* Home Route - GET "/"
* Create Route - POST "/"
* Show Route - GET "/:id"
* Update Route - PATCH "/:id"
* Delete Route - DELETE "/:id"

## Frontend

#### Components

* Admin Login

---REQUIRES AUTH---

    * Home Route
        * Index
            * Show
                * Edit
        * Create

NOTE: If user is not logged in, all pages/components other than home and login are locked, and user is prompted to visit login page

## CHALLENGES FACED

#### Go, more like Stop, amirite?

I started dabbling in Golang maybe a month or so before starting this project, and at that time I had planned on using Buffalo for my API framework. However, I decided to pivot (read: had a small nervous breakdown) for the following reasons:

* Buffalo is super opinionated and pretty finicky. Think Ruby on Rails, but the syntax is scary. Not my favorite way to start using a language about which I know very little.
* I don't know what kind of weird little goblin lives inside my PC but it does NOT like Buffalo for some reason.

At this point, I decided to pivot from the strict and overbearing Buffalo to the much lighter and more freeform gin. Gin is ultra minimalist, super lighweight, and supported by a very passionate and knowledgable dev community. It's like Go's version of ExpressJS, except it's way faster and has an army of nerds backing it up.

In short, Buffalo is the strict dad that grounds you if you're home at 9:00 for your 8:59 curfew, while Gin is the chill mom that lets you drink at home because she'd "rather you do it here than at a stranger's house." Personally, I know which one I'd rather hang out with.

## COMING SOON TO A WEBSITE NEAR YOU!

As this is a small eCommerce site, the typical M.O. would be to have two frontend apps pinging the same API--a client-facing site and an admin portal. For the purposes of this demo, I have only created a bare-bones admin portal for a site that only sells swords. However, if I decide to continue this project and develop it into a full-fledged armory, then I would want to add the following features:

#### To Backend:
* Enhanced route security to ensure only authorized users can modify the database
* Multiple router groups to allow for other product categories, altered functionality for client-side routes, etc.
* Add inventory counts to merchandise models in db, make this adjust when an item is purchased

#### To Existing Admin Portal:
* More robust login/logout, to ensure that tokens cannot be falsified and that logout does not inadvertently clear any other sites' tokens from localstorage
* Display item inventory
* Display work orders generated by customer purchases

#### To New Client-Facing Site:
* Create user profile
* Remove most CRUD capability aside from viewing items
* Add items to cart
* Process payment information
* Generate invoice and send to customer email
* Generate work order to be sent to admin account